In this lecture, you'll learn how to upgrade the IOS system image on your Cisco router or switch.
First thing that you need to do is get the new software image, so you get that from the Cisco Website
at https://software.cisco.com.
Let's have a look there. So, you'll land on this page.
Click on the link for software download, and then that will open up a new tab, and it's searchable in here.
So in the search box, put in whatever it is that you want to upgrade.
So, let's say we want to upgrade a 2960 switch.
I put that in, I then select my model of switch.
I can then select the IOS image that I want to download from there. So download it from the Cisco website,
and then copy it onto your TFTP server.
Then from the TFTP server, you're going to download it to Flash on the device.
Once you've got it on Flash, then either delete the old image, leaving just the new one there and the device
will now boot up from the new image, or if you want to keep both images on there just in case you need
to fall back to the old one, then to make sure that it uses the new image,
use the 'boot system' command. So, let's have a look at doing this in the lab.
Same lab as last time,
I've got a switch this time. We're going to use this switch at 10.10.10.2, and we're going to download
a new software image from the TFTP server at 10.10.10.10. So, let's go onto the switch
and check what software image it's running right now.
If I do a 'show flash', you'll see there's only one system image in there, which is running
c2960-lanbase-mz.122-25.FX.bin, and if I do a 'show version', not surprisingly because
that's the only system image in Flash that is confirmed as the software image that we are running. So we're going
to upgrade this to a newer version of IOS. So let's have a look at the TFTP server now, and I can
see I've got version 15.0 for the 2960. So this is the image that I'm going to use.
I need to download that to my switch. I'll go back to the switch again, and the command I want to use
at the enable prompt is 'copy tftp flash'. The TFTP server is at 10.10.10.10.
The file name, I've already copy this into my clipboard hopefully, so I'll try pasting it. Yep, there is it.
That was a 15.0 image. I want to keep it the same name when I copy it to Flash. So there it is, copied into
Flash now. I'll verify it's there with a 'show flash', and now I can see both the current and the new system image.
What I could do now is I could delete the old one, and that will guarantee it will boot up with
the new one next time, but let's say I want to keep the old one there just in case I need to fall
back to it. I'm going to keep it there to make it easier to do that in case I need to, so I need to
do the 'boot system' command now. So I will copy the name of the new system image, and then at global config,
I will enter the command 'boot system', and it's on 'flash:' and then the file name, paste that in,
'end', and 'copy run start'. And I should be good to go now. Now when the system boots up, it loads the system
image into RAM memory, so I need to 'reload' into the new system image. I will do that now.
I will do a 'reload', and you can see the message there that yes, it is loading the new system image.
That looks all good but let's just wait for it to boot up so that we can confirm. Okay,
there we go.
I'll go to the enable prompt, 'show flash',
you'll see that both images are still there.
And if I do a 'show version', I am now running version 15.0.
Okay,
so that's all that it's to it.
That's how you do an upgrade of IOS on your router or switch.